Any successful system will live in production for a while and
change over time beyond its initial design.
That means that the software will need to evolve its design and
possibly change its schema and API over time.
When writing your software,
you can look into how to minimize the impact of these changes and how to write
software that needs as little code as possible to be changed.
One cool trick, in BuzzFeed terminology,
is to minimize the impact of change by only trying to extract or depend upon
the information that you need when consuming a JSON document.
That means that when an unrelated part of the schema of the document changes,
your code doesn't break.
It makes you less vulnerable to changes.
For example, in our examples where we're approving or denying bank loans,
we shouldn't try and validate and check the entire
document matches our expectations, only the income and loan amount,
the values that we need.
Now,
you might think that this means that binding APIs are out of bounds entirely,
but actually the default behavior with Jackson when a field is missing
in the JSON document is to leave the field null.
This initially sounds like a bad idea.
It means you may have to check some fields for null values,
but it does mean that you're less susceptible to breaking when consuming
JSON documents from a producer that has evolved its API.
In order to put this theory into practice,
we'll next show you a demo where we make some small
changes to our bank loan document.
We're going to add, remove, and rename some fields.
And, we shall see how the different APIs cope with these situations.
We'll look at how you can support two different versions
that have a small change fairly easily.
In order to demonstrate the problems we have with evolving APIs,
I've taken our BANK_LOAN_FILE and I've just created an evolved versions here.
That was exactly the same initially as the previous version
that we've seen in our previous examples,
but I'm going to modify it in this demo and show you what happens
when we run the modified version with the code.
But firstly, let's just recap what we've got here.
I've got a method that extracts information from the JSON file using a DOM API.
And what it just does is it calculates the totalIncome
and the amount from that InputStream.
This is basically the same logic as we saw in our
servlet example for the DOM API.
And in fact,
the code snippets here to start with are exactly the same as we
saw in the servlet examples for all three APIs.
The DOM version just looks up the JsonNode for the loanDetails field,
checks it exists, and if so, finds the amount value from the loanDetails object.
To get the totalIncome, it looks up a JsonNode for the jobs,
iterates over the elements, and then returns the totalIncome.
So if we run this code, we can see it works fine, just as we would expect.
Similarly, with the binding API, we use our BasicLoanApplication object,
bind a value out, and get the totalIncome from the jobs list,
the amount to be borrowed in the loan from the amount
field of the loanDetails object.
And if I just quickly run that,
you can see that we get the same results as we did before.
And finally, with the streaming API.
Cool.
Nice and simple.
So let's take this same code and evolve our schema.
So the first thing I'm going to do is I'm going to take this
purposeOfLoan field and I am going to remove it and we'll see what
happens to these different versions when we remove it.
As we can see, we don't depend upon that information at all in the DOM API.
So it works fine.
Now the binding API, as I mentioned in Jackson,
if there's a missing field, it will return null as the field.
So by not depending upon that information and not
validating the information we didn't need,
that works fine in the presence of removing a field,
and so does the streaming API.
Simple.
So, let's try adding a field now.
We're going to add some comments about the person in question.
We're going to just say Mrs Joan Smith, she seems trustworthy.
And we'll see what happens with these different APIs.
Again, the DOM API works in the presence of removing a field.
If we try the binding API, we see we get a big exception.
So all that says is you've got a UnrecognizedPropertyException
and an unrecognized field called comments.
I don't know what to do with that in my API.
So this is a problem that you have with the binding API.
If we want to solve that problem in the binding API,
we basically need to add a new field in here called comments.
And add a getter and setter for it.
Even though we don't actually use the information there.
So someone adding a field to an API, if you're relying on the binding API,
can potentially break your usage.
And we can check in with the streaming API.
I'm going to stream the API, just stream through the tokens,
and looks for things with annualIncome and amount in there.
So if we try that with the streaming API,
we can see it works fine even with the added field.
There's no problem.
So for adding a field, the binding API is a little bit more fiddly.
Now let's try renaming a field.
So first, I've got a loanDetails object,
and suppose the API changes so it now says loanInfo,
if there's a new version.
What happens then?
If we try and extract it using the DOM API,
we see that the code runs, but the amount is now 0.
So that's a bit of a problem.
Why is the amount now 0?
Well, we were still having a loanDetails getter here.
So if we wanted to support both versions of the code,
what we'd have to do is say look up the previous API where it says loanDetails
and then attempt to get the field where it says loanInfo.
And if we rerun that now, we can see it parses with the evolved API.
So that was easy enough to fix.
What about the binding API?
Well, again, we fail fast.
We get this big exception.
It says look, there's an unrecognized field,
loanInfo, and the binding API is a little bit more fiddly to fix.
So first thing we need to do is add another field in here called loanInfo.
And add a getter and setter for it.
Now if we do that, and rerun the code, we can see that it parses okay,
but then we get a NullPointerException here.
So, again, we need to say look, find the loanDetails objects.
If the loanDetails object is null, i.
e.
if it's missing from the parsed JSON, take that loanApplication,
get the loanInfo object because that's what it's been renamed to,
and put it in there.
So this is how you kind of support multiple different versions
that you've renamed and then that code works.
A bit fiddly than the DOM API, but we still got there.
And finally, let's try the streaming API.
And the streaming API just worked out of the box.
Now, that's really good.
So this is an example of how the streaming API depended,
though we wrote this code,
depended less upon the structure of the JSON than the other versions did.
It just looked for the information and sucked it out.
And sometimes it's worth writing code, that way,
even if it requires a bit more code up front,
if it enables you to be more flexible as time goes on and support schema changes more easily.